TOKENIZED LORE SERIES 1: TRILIUM & TRIACTOR TECHNOLOGY


TRILIUM: Discovered by the Altans, Trilium is an innately formless energy source possessing a chaotic resonance that causes radical mutation upon contact with organic matter. It is the most bioreactive substance in the known universe, yet in refined form is a critical component of various Federation technologies.

Trilium is an innately formless energy source with a chaotic resonance discovered by the Altans which adapts naturally to its surroundings, and is classified as the most bioreactive substance in the known universe, causing runaway mutation whenever it comes into direct contact with organic matter. It is known to exist in solid, liquid, or gas states depending on the terrain from which it is extracted. Its constant energy emission is harnessed through artificially constraining its frequency, enabling versatile applications such as augmentation through bionetics & cybernetics, deep space travel, and genetic modifications related to health - particularly disease resistance and eradication - physiological performance, telomeric reconstruction (aiding longevity), and innovative adaptations that facilitate survival in biomes otherwise hostile to life.

The Altans, experimenting with Trilium in various states, identified specific strengths for each, with gaseous Trilium excelling as a technology power source, liquid Trilium as ideal for bionetics, and granulated solid Trilium - suspended in a stabilizing gel - used in genetic modulation.


TRIACTOR TECHNOLOGY: Triactor Technology, invented by the Altans, harnesses the power of Trilium and is universerally used throughout Federation space for personal augmentation.

Trilium's volatility varies across states, with gaseous Trilium being the most volatile and having extreme mutagenic effects on any organic matter that it comes into contact with. Altans developed a refining method to lock Trilium into specific stable states and constrain its resonance frequency, identifying distinct resonances for power and genetic modification.

Triactor Technology underpins the ability to manipulate refined Trilium in useful ways, tapping into various resonances related to the recipient's race, individual characteristics, residing planet, and desired genetic modifications. Using appropriate tools and containment methods, raw Trilium can be mined and transported safely to official refineries, where it is then converted into specific locked states for different technological applications. In combination with the Altans' Triactor Technology it unlocks a spectrum of possibilities in harnessing energy, genetics, and technology.


TRIACTOR JACKS: Triactor jacks are grafted onto living organisms for the purpose of genetic augmentation, with the jack syncing with the organism's base resonance to offer a range of possible enhancements... and risks. 

The most prolific use of Triactor Technology is personal: a Triactor socket grafted onto a living organism into which genetic modulation cartridges can be slotted. These cartridges contain the three core states of refined Trilium, separated in a triangular fashion. The Triactor socket takes a reading of the organism to determine its base resonance state, and once read an array of possibilities will become available – a library of sorts along with risks and repeat applications.

Diseases, wounds, and almost all other ailments possess a particular repeating resonance. A fitted Triactor jack can be programmed to locate and identify these resonance patterns within an organism, and then calculate & administer the exact curative resonance required to heal the problem area. The jack’s abilities extend beyond curative medical applications, and can be utilised to alter or enhance an individual both physically and mentally.


DATA CORES: To achieve specific effects, a Trilium powered data vore with precise genetic instructions is attached to the jack which then delivers the desired effect or ability. 

In order to elicit a particular desired effect a data core must be inserted into the central cavity of the Triactor jack. This core contains a specific set of genetic instructions which guide the Triactor’s augmentation of the host organism, preventing unwanted side effects and ensuring the alteration process is as power-efficient as possible.

As more data are gathered on the different Federation races and the various medical issues that they can succumb to, the array of previously incurable disease, poisons and other negative bodily influences that Triactor technology is capable of dealing with continues to grow. In addition, the list of potential enhancements likewise grows longer with more complex beneficial augmentation becoming possible over time.